Low and Slow Password Guessing
We have looked at how service
accounts may be attacked
by abusing the features of
the Kerberos protocol,
but Active Directory can also
provide us with information
that can be used for a more
advanced password guessing
technique against user accounts.
When performing a brute-force or
wordlist authentication attack,
we must take account lockouts into
account since too many failed logins
may lockout the account and possibly
alert system administrators.
In this section, we will use LDAP and
ADSI to perform a “low and slow”
password attack against AD users without
causing an account lockout.
First, let’s take a look at the domain’s
account policy with net accounts.
There’s a lot of great information here,
but let’s first focus on
“Lockout threshold" which indicates
a limit of five
login attempts before lockout.
This means that we can safely attempt four
logins without triggering a lockout.
This doesn’t sound like much,
but consider the Lockout
observation window .
It indicates that every thirty
minutes after the last login attempt,
we are given an additional
“free” login attempt.
With these settings, we could
attempt fifty-two logins
in a twenty-four-hour period
against every domain user
without triggering a lockout.
With an attack like this, we can compile
a short list of very common
passwords and use it against a massive
amount of users, which usually
reveals quite a few weak account
passwords in an organization.
Knowing this, let’s implement this attack.
There are a number of ways to
test an AD user login,
but we will use our PowerShell script to
demonstrate the basic components.
Previously, we performed
queries against the domain
controller as the logged-in user.
However, we can also make
queries as a different user
by setting the DirectoryEntry instance.
In previous examples, we used
the DirectoryEntry constructor
without arguments,
but we can provide three arguments
including the LDAP path to
the domain controller,
along with the username
and password.
If the password is correct, the
object creation will succeed.
Let’s update our script
with an incorrect password.
With an incorrect password, no object will
be created and we will receive an
exception and a clear warning that the
user name or password is incorrect.
Using this technique we can
create a PowerShell script
that enumerates all users and
performs authentications
according to the Lockout threshold
and Lockout observation window.
An existing implementation of
this attack, called Spray-Passwords.ps1
is located on the Windows 10 client.
The -Pass option allows us to
set a single password to test,
and we can use the -Admin
flag to test admin accounts.
This simple example produces quick
results but more often than not
we will need to use a wordlist
with good password candidates.
We have now looked at ways of
obtaining credentials for both user
and service accounts when attacking Active
Directory and its authentication protocols.
Next, we can start leveraging this to
compromise additional machines
in the domain, ideally those wit
high-value logged-in users.